♪ [music] ♪
Now that I have some
reviews being piped in,
how do we get them to show up when we
visit a single store?
Going to click over to Randy's Joint here.
I'm going to leave a quick review.
"Love this place." Give it a five star
review, submit the review,
and it brings us right back to the
specific review page. So no problem there.
But how do I actually pull in a list of
reviews in here? Well,
"reviews" is its own data type and
"stores" are its own data type,
so how do we sort of like, have a
relationship between the two?
If we look at our review.js, we are saving
the store here, but if we look at our
store, we don't have anything to do with
the reviews that are on the storeSchema.
So, this would be a bit of a pain, because
if we wanted to in the review save the
store, but then under the store save a
list of actual reviews,
then all the sudden we're managing data in
two places. We're managing the store and
the review, and the review and the store.
And those can get out of sync really
quickly, not to mention how much of a pain
it is to keep those up to date.
So really what we want to do is, when we
visit a store page, we also want to do a
second query, which is going to search for
any reviews where the store is equal to
the actual ID of the specific store. But,
we can even go one better,
and this is a new thing in Mongoose, and
it's called "virtual populate." So let's
close our review.js, because we actually
aren't going to need it.
And right below the getTagsList, right
before we actually make our model here,
we're going to add a new field to our
schema called "Reviews."
So say "storeSchema.virtual," and the
field is called "reviews." And the options
that we pass it is...before it was a
function where we immediately return
something. But in this case we're going to
tell it to go off to another model,
in this case our review model, and
actually do a quick query for us.
So say, the reference is going to be a
review. Why? Because if we look at our
review.js, the name of our model is
capital R, "Review." So that's why it is
referenced to that model here. Then we say
our local field and our foreign field are
"ID" and "store." So let's type this and
I'll explain it, because this was a bit
trippy for me at first.
So our local field is "_id," and our
foreign field is going to be equal to
"store." Now what does this mean? Well,
our local field is, which field on our
Store needs to match up with which field
on our foreign model?
Which, this just should say "Review
field." Right? Like, "Which field on the
review?" And, "Which field on the store?"
And, "What model to link?" Right?
So what this essentially says is, "Find
reviews where the store's ID is equal to
the review's store property." It would
say, "ID property." Right?
So if we open up our MongoDB Compass here,
and I look at our stores,
we're saying, "Find a review where the
store's ID, 58C0, is equal to a review's
store property, 58F..." Those aren't the
same, but if they were the same,
then it would automatically populate
that in the Reviews field,
because they then line up. So this is sort
of like a join, if you've ever used SQL
before. But it's nice virtual field, so
that we're actually not saving any sort of
relationship between the two. It's just
100% virtual.
So now if we actually go back to our store
controller, and we look at the method that
was used to do this page. Remember that
was "getStore BySlug." There we go.
And we're already populating the author
field. Now we can populate our new field,
which is "Reviews." Give that a save. Now
here's a little funny thing that will trip
a lot of people up. If we go to our
store.pug and try to do a dump - store.pug
- and we have some comments on Randy's,
right? If you're not sure if your actual
store has some comments, make sure you
say, "Love you." Make sure you add a
comment to that actual store.
Oh, it broke. What did I do? I broke it!
Oh my goodness! Virtual is not a function.
I know how to spell. I bet I don't. Back
up and running. Leave her a comment,
give it a review. There we go, we've added
an element. So now we got a couple of
reviews for Randy's Joint. We were to go
to store.pug and we do...take a quick
dump. "pre=h.dump," the store. And you'll
see that we do have the author being
populated, but where is our reviews?
Didn't we populate it?
And here, watch this. "store.reviews." So
now if I explicitly call the reviews
property, something we don't see on it
right here, there they are.
Huh. So that's something about, by
default, virtual fields do not actually go
into either an object, or into JSON unless
you explicitly ask it to,
right? So what we want to do here is open
up your store.js and there are some
options on your schema which will allow
you to actually bring those to JSON
[inaudible]. It's not an issue
for us, because the data is there.
But whenever you convert your actual model
data into an object or into JSON,
it will by default not put virtuals in
that object or in that JSON.
So if you do want to change that, you can
go to your schema here,
and we can go down here and pass an
object, and we say, any time it is passed
to JSON, you can say the virtuals is true.
And you can do the same to Object,
and say, "Virtual is true." And what that
will do is, any time that a actual
document is converted to either JSON or to
an object - in this case it's being
converted to an object, so we can dump it
on the page - then it will actually bring
the virtuals along for the ride. Even
though they are there, they're sort of
invisible to JSON and to Objects. So give
it a refresh, and there you go.
See, all the sudden, the reviews field has
been populated. It's not necessary to do
that unless you actually are worried about
it not showing up in your ".dump," to view
it on the page. And I like to often see it
on the page before I loop over each one.
So good. Now we're getting all of the
reviews. We can actually go back into our
store.pug and start to loop over each of
them. So we'll go down here,
below the "if user," and we'll say, "If
store.reviews..." So if there are reviews,
we're going to give ourself a
reviews div. And we'll say,
"Each review in store.reviews." We're
going to have a review div.
And then we...let's just try output, like
a paragraph tag with the review.text.
Just to see if we can get it up and
running, then we'll make a little partial
for that to handle it. Refresh that.
Scroll down. "This place rocks.
Love this place. Love this place so much."
Good. So let's make a new mixin that we
can make a review in it.
So we'll go into our views mixins, and
we'll make a "_review.pug" mix-in.
Hit "review," and it takes in a review.
And at first we're going to have a review
header and we're going to have a review
author. Below that we'll have a review
stars, we'll have a time tag with a class
of review time. And then below the header
we'll have a review body, which is a
paragraph tag with "Review.text."
So we're going to come back and fill these
all in, but I'd like to just get the text
showing up for now. So give that a save.
Back to your store.pug,
we need to import our mixin, and then go
ahead and use it. So,
how do we use a mix-in? Plus review, pass
it the actual review itself.
So the mixin's called "Review." Each of
them is called "Review" here.
If that confuses you, that they're named
the same thing, just call it "R." "Each R
in store.reviews." And then each review is
called "R." Doesn't confuse me,
though. I'm going to keep it.
Now, there we go. "Love this place. This
place rocks. Love this place so much."
We've got our three coming up, no problem
there. So let's go back into the reviews
and start to work our way through.
So the first one is the review author, but
if we look here, each review,
the author is just a number, right? Like,
I guess we could say,
like, "Paragraph equals review.author,"
and then, just display the author's actual
ID. That's who commented, 58F. Right? But
that's not really what we want.
We want to populate that data with an
avatar and some data about the user.
So what we're going to need to do is to go
one step further, and make sure that when
the review is actually queried, it's going
to auto-populate our actual author field
for us, because we need the information
about that author.
So we'll go back into our review.js, our
model, and we're going to make a function
called "Auto Populate." Function
"autopopulate." Takes a "next".
And we're going to say
"this.populate('author') call next." And
what this will do is we can add hooks to
whenever this review is queried,
what we're going to do is automatically
populate the author field,
so we don't have to explicitly go in and
ask for the author field to be populated
every single time. So we'll take our
review schema and we're going to say
"pre('find')." We're going to run
autopopulate. And "pre('findOne')" we're
also going to populate.
So what this will do is it will add hooks.
For any time somebody finds or finds one,
and it's going to populate the author
field of each of those. Now if I give that
a save and refresh this, you see that the
author field...oh, wow!
The author field just got updated to
"wesbos@gmail.com." So each of the reviews
now has a subsequent author field which
has been populated with all the possible
data that we need. So we're now dumping
the entire value onto the field.
That's not what we need. So we'll go back
to our review.pug and we'll swamp out this
review author with actually
the markup that we need.
So we need image of the class of avatar,
and the source attribute is going to be
the review.author.gravatar. Right? We're
accessing a virtual property of a
populated document. And then below that,
we'll have a paragraph tag which has your
review.author.name. See what that gives
us. Good, we got three pictures of myself,
three names that are now being populated.
Then in the stars, what we're going to do
is we're going to give that a title of
"Rated..." And we'll take the
"reviews.rating," of five stars. See what
that gives us. It's not going to show us
anything, but if we inspect it now. Rated
five out of five stars.
Good. So that we're pulling that in,
that's get for accessibility's sake.
And then, inside of that, we're going to
have an equals, and I'm going to take -
you might need to go find this online -
this is a unicode star,
and I call "repeat," because it's a
string, "review.rating." That's going to
tell us how many...so if I rated it five,
it's going to give us five stars.
Beautiful. I rated this one five stars
three times. Let me give me two stars.
There we go. Meh. Two stars. But then I
also what to show the empty stars for the
rest of them. So below it, I'm going to
say "equals" and I'm going to give
ourselves the empty star, and we'll call
it "repeat(5 - review.rating)." So if I
gave it two, there's going to be three
empty stars that get repeated.
There we go. So two out of five. That's a
nice little way. And the reason why I had
to do this title here is because it's not
accessible to just show somebody a bunch
of stars on the page and get them to
figure it out. So you need to be able
allow those of you
[inaudible] to read that.
Finally, the review time. You always
should have a "datetime=review.created."
What that will do is it will give a time
stamp to screen readers and Google bots
and everything like that. That's how a
time tag should be properly formatted.
Inside of it, we're going to take our
h.moment. Ah! If you've ever used moment
js, that's a library, and if we open our
helpers.js, you'll see that I've just put
the entire moment js library in our
helpers, so that I can use it.
So we say, "h.moment, review.created." And
then we can use a method called
".fromNow." So what this will do is it
will make a moment js object,
which allows us to call these handy little
methods like, "from now," which should
give us a, kind of like a "14 minutes ago,
29 minutes ago, a minute ago," and then
it'll give you months and years, and all.
It'll format it really really nicely, too.
So that's a cool use for passing libraries
to your helper. Put them on your h.helper
valuable, and you have access to them
anywhere inside of you actual template.
So this is our whole reviews that we've
got up and running. I know that was quite
a bit, so I would probably at this point
take a quick review of everything that we
did, specifically adding the auto
populate, as well as when we are in our
store.js, we did the virtual fields that
have a external document that hooks up to
itself.
In the next one, we are going to hook up
this top page, we take an average of all
their reviews and get us to
some advanced aggregation.
♪ [music] ♪